1. whois target.com

    Description: Queries the Whois database for domain registration details.
    Uses: To obtain domain registration information, including owner details, registration dates, and contact information.

2. nslookup target.com

    Description: Queries DNS records for a domain.
    Uses: To retrieve IP addresses associated with the domain or other DNS records.

3. dig target.com

    Description: Performs DNS lookups and provides detailed DNS query information.
    Uses: To obtain detailed DNS records, including A, AAAA, MX, and NS records.

4. host -t ns target.com

    Description: Retrieves nameserver (NS) records for a domain.
    Uses: To find the authoritative nameservers for the domain.

5. host -t mx target.com

    Description: Retrieves mail exchange (MX) records for a domain.
    Uses: To identify mail servers for the domain.

6. sublist3r -d target.com

    Description: Uses various sources to enumerate subdomains of a domain.
    Uses: To discover subdomains for further enumeration and testing.

7. amass enum -d target.com

    Description: Enumerates subdomains using various techniques and sources.
    Uses: To gather a comprehensive list of subdomains.

8. assetfinder --sub-only target.com

    Description: Finds subdomains of a given domain using various sources.
    Uses: To discover subdomains that may not be identified through other tools.

9. findomain -t target.com

    Description: Discovers subdomains of a domain.
    Uses: To find hidden or less obvious subdomains.

10. massdns -r resolvers.txt -t A -o S -w results.txt subdomains.txt

    Description: Resolves subdomains to IP addresses using a list of DNS resolvers.
    Uses: To map discovered subdomains to their IP addresses.

11. httprobe < subdomains.txt > live_subdomains.txt

    Description: Checks which subdomains are live by probing them for HTTP services.
    Uses: To filter out non-responsive subdomains and focus on active ones.

12. httpx -l subdomains.txt -o live_hosts.txt

    Description: Identifies live hosts from a list of subdomains by sending HTTP requests.
    Uses: To verify which subdomains are actively serving web content.

13. httpx -iL live_hosts.txt -o nmapurls.txt

    Description: Sends HTTP requests to live hosts and saves URLs for further scanning.
    Uses: To prepare URLs for detailed scanning with tools like Nmap.

14. whatweb -i live_hosts.txt

    Description: Identifies web technologies used by hosts.
    Uses: To detect technology stacks and potentially vulnerable components on web servers.

15. aquatone-discover -d target.com

    Description: Discovers subdomains and provides a visual interface for them.
    Uses: To visualize and further investigate subdomains.

16. waybackurls target.com | tee waybackurls.txt

    Description: Retrieves URLs from the Wayback Machine archive for a domain.
    Uses: To find historical URLs that may expose hidden endpoints or content.

17. gau target.com | tee gau_urls.txt

    Description: Retrieves URLs from various sources, including the Wayback Machine and Common Crawl.
    Uses: To compile a list of URLs for further analysis.

18. hakrawler -url target.com -depth 2 -plain | tee hakrawler_output.txt

    Description: Crawls a website and extracts links up to a specified depth.
    Uses: To gather and analyze all links within a certain depth from the root URL.

19. github-search target.com

    Description: Searches GitHub for repositories related to the domain.
    Uses: To find potentially exposed source code or configuration files.

20. gitrob -repo target.com

    Description: Analyzes GitHub repositories for sensitive information.
    Uses: To identify potentially sensitive data in public repositories.

21. fierce --domain target.com

    Description: DNS reconnaissance tool to identify subdomains and other DNS records.
    Uses: To enumerate subdomains and DNS records for further analysis.

22. dirsearch -u target.com -e *

    Description: Performs directory and file brute-forcing on a web server.
    Uses: To find hidden directories and files.

23. ffuf -w wordlist.txt -u https://target.com/FUZZ

    Description: Fuzzes URLs for directories and files using a wordlist.
    Uses: To discover hidden resources on a web server.

24. gowitness file -f live_hosts.txt -P screenshots/

    Description: Takes screenshots of live hosts.
    Uses: To visually inspect the appearance of live web pages.

25. nuclei -l live_hosts.txt -t templates/

    Description: Runs Nuclei templates against live hosts for vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To perform vulnerability scanning based on predefined templates.

26. metabigor net --org target.com

    Description: Identifies digital assets and metadata related to an organization.
    Uses: To gather detailed information about an organization’s infrastructure.

27. metagoofil -d target.com -t doc,pdf,xls,docx,xlsx,ppt,pptx -l 100

    Description: Extracts metadata from documents related to a domain.
    Uses: To find sensitive information within document files.

28. theharvester -d target.com -l 500 -b all

    Description: Collects information from various public sources.
    Uses: To aggregate information such as email addresses, subdomains, and more.

29. dnsenum target.com

    Description: Performs DNS enumeration to discover subdomains and other DNS records.
    Uses: To enumerate DNS information and discover potential attack vectors.

30. dnsrecon -d target.com

    Description: Performs DNS reconnaissance and enumeration.
    Uses: To gather detailed DNS records and identify subdomains.

31. shodan search hostname:target.com

    Description: Searches Shodan for devices associated with a hostname.
    Uses: To find internet-connected devices and their details.

32. censys search target.com

    Description: Searches Censys for information about a domain.
    Uses: To find details about devices and certificates associated with the domain.

33. spiderfoot -s target.com -o spiderfoot_report.html

    Description: Performs automated reconnaissance and generates a report.
    Uses: To get a comprehensive overview of the target’s digital footprint.

34. sniper -t target.com

    Description: Automated reconnaissance tool for various data collection tasks.
    Uses: To perform in-depth reconnaissance and gather a wide range of information.

35. subfinder -d target.com -o subfinder_results.txt

    Description: Finds subdomains of a domain.
    Uses: To identify subdomains for further analysis and testing.

36. wafwoof target.com

    Description: Detects the presence of a web application firewall (WAF).
    Uses: To identify if a WAF is protecting the target site.

37. arjun -u https://target.com -oT arjun_output.txt

    Description: Parameter discovery tool for web applications.
    Uses: To identify and enumerate parameters in web applications.

38. subjack -w subdomains.txt -t 20 -o subjack_results.txt

    Description: Checks for subdomain takeover vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To identify subdomains that may be vulnerable to takeover.

39. meg -d 1000 -v /path/to/live_subdomains.txt

    Description: Performs directory brute-forcing on live subdomains.
    Uses: To find hidden directories and files on subdomains.

40. waymore -u target.com -o waymore_results.txt

    Description: Extends Wayback Machine data to find more historical URLs.
    Uses: To gather additional historical data and URLs.

41. unfurl -u target.com -o unfurl_results.txt

    Description: Extracts and analyzes URLs from a web domain.
    Uses: To gather and analyze URLs for further testing.

42. dalfox file live_hosts.txt

    Description: Performs XSS vulnerability scanning on live hosts.
    Uses: To identify potential XSS vulnerabilities in web applications.

43. gospider -S live_hosts.txt -o gospider_output/

    Description: Crawls web applications to find URLs and resources.
    Uses: To discover additional URLs and resources within web applications.

44. recon-ng -w workspace -t target.com

    Description: Framework for gathering open-source intelligence.
    Uses: To collect and analyze information about the target domain.

45. xray webscan --basic-crawler http://target.com

    Description: Performs a basic web scan and crawl.
    Uses: To identify vulnerabilities and gather data from web applications.

46. vhost -u target.com -o vhost_results.txt

    Description: Finds virtual hosts for a domain.
    Uses: To identify potential virtual hosts and related resources.

47. gf xss | tee xss_params.txt

    Description: Identifies potential XSS parameters using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to XSS attacks.

48. gf sqli | tee sqli_payloads.txt

    Description: Identifies potential SQLi payloads using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to SQL injection attacks.

49. gf lfi | tee lfi_payloads.txt

    Description: Identifies potential LFI payloads using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to Local File Inclusion attacks.

50. gf ssrf | tee ssrf_payloads.txt

    Description: Identifies potential SSRF payloads using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to Server-Side Request Forgery attacks.

51. gf idor | tee idor_payloads.txt

    Description: Identifies potential IDOR payloads using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to Insecure Direct Object References.

52. gf ssti | tee ssti_payloads.txt

    Description: Identifies potential SSTI payloads using the gf tool.
    Uses: To find parameters vulnerable to Server-Side Template Injection attacks.

53. git-secrets --scan

    Description: Scans for sensitive information in Git repositories.
    Uses: To identify secrets and sensitive data in version-controlled code.

54. shuffledns -d target.com -list resolvers.txt -o shuffledns_results.txt

    Description: Resolves subdomains using shuffled DNS resolvers.
    Uses: To discover subdomains with the help of randomized DNS resolvers.

55. dnsgen -f subdomains.txt | massdns -r resolvers.txt -t A -o S -w dnsgen_results.txt

    Description: Generates DNS records from subdomains and resolves them.
    Uses: To find additional DNS records for discovered subdomains.

56. mapcidr -silent -cidr target.com -o mapcidr_results.txt

    Description: Maps CIDR ranges to their respective IP addresses.
    Uses: To enumerate IP addresses within specified CIDR ranges.

57. tko-subs -domains=target.com -data=providers-data.csv

    Description: Finds subdomains using a specified data provider.
    Uses: To discover additional subdomains using external data sources.

58. kiterunner -w wordlist.txt -u https://target.com

    Description: Performs directory brute-forcing on a web application.
    Uses: To find hidden directories and files within a web application.

59. github-dorker -d target.com

    Description: Searches for sensitive data using GitHub dorking.
    Uses: To discover exposed sensitive information on GitHub.

60. gfredirect -u target.com

    Description: Finds open redirects using the gf tool.
    Uses: To identify potential open redirect vulnerabilities.

61. paramspider --domain target.com --output paramspider_output.txt

    Description: Extracts parameters from a web domain.
    Uses: To identify parameters in web applications for further testing.

62. dirb https://target.com/ -o dirb_output.txt

    Description: Performs directory brute-forcing on a web server.
    Uses: To find hidden directories and files.

63. wpscan --url target.com

    Description: Scans a WordPress site for vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To identify security issues in WordPress installations.

64. cloud_enum -k target.com -l cloud_enum_output.txt

    Description: Enumerates cloud infrastructure and services related to a domain.
    Uses: To discover cloud-based assets and services.

65. gobuster dns -d target.com -t 50 -w wordlist.txt

    Description: Brute-forces DNS subdomains.
    Uses: To discover hidden DNS subdomains.

66. subzero -d target.com

    Description: Discovers subdomains using multiple sources.
    Uses: To identify subdomains from a variety of sources.

67. dnswalk target.com

    Description: Performs a walk-through of DNS records.
    Uses: To enumerate and analyze DNS records.

68. masscan -iL live_hosts.txt -p0-65535 -oX masscan_results.xml

    Description: Scans all ports on live hosts.
    Uses: To identify open ports across a range of IP addresses.

69. xsstrike -u https://target.com/FUZZ

    Description: Performs XSS vulnerability scanning with advanced techniques.
    Uses: To identify and test for XSS vulnerabilities.

70. dnsx -l subdomains.txt -resp-only -o dnsx_results.txt

    Description: Resolves subdomains to IP addresses and outputs results.
    Uses: To map subdomains to their corresponding IP addresses.

71. waybackpack target.com -d output/

    Description: Retrieves and analyzes Wayback Machine snapshots.
    Uses: To gather historical data and URLs from archived web pages.

72. puredns resolve subdomains.txt -r resolvers.txt -w puredns_results.txt

    Description: Resolves subdomains using a list of resolvers.
    Uses: To map subdomains to IP addresses.

73. ctfr -d target.com -o ctfr_results.txt

    Description: Finds and resolves CNAME records for a domain.
    Uses: To discover additional DNS records and possible aliases.

74. dnsvalidator -t 100 -f resolvers.txt -o validated_resolvers.txt

    Description: Validates a list of DNS resolvers.
    Uses: To ensure that DNS resolvers are functional and reliable.

75. httpx -silent -l live_hosts.txt -mc 200 -o httpx_results.txt

    Description: Checks HTTP responses for status code 200 on live hosts.
    Uses: To confirm that hosts are responding with an HTTP 200 status.

76. cloud_enum -k target.com -l cloud_enum_results.txt

    Description: Enumerates cloud-related services and infrastructure.
    Uses: To gather information on cloud-based assets and services.

77. dirbuster -u https://target.com -w /path/to/wordlist.txt

    Description: Performs directory and file brute-forcing on a web server.
    Uses: To discover hidden directories and files.

78. nmap -p- -T4 -A -v target.com

    Description: Scans all ports on a target with aggressive detection.
    Uses: To perform a comprehensive port scan and service detection.

79. sqlmap -u "https://target.com/page?id=1" --dbs

    Description: Detects and exploits SQL injection vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To enumerate databases on a vulnerable application.

80. screenshot-machine -u https://target.com -o screenshot.png

    Description: Takes a screenshot of a web page.
    Uses: To visually capture the content of a web page.

81. nikto -h https://target.com

    Description: Performs a web server vulnerability scan.
    Uses: To identify potential vulnerabilities and misconfigurations.

82. wpscan --enumerate u

    Description: Enumerates users on a WordPress site.
    Uses: To identify user accounts for further attacks.

83. burpsuite --project-file project.burp

    Description: Opens a Burp Suite project file.
    Uses: To start a Burp Suite session with a saved project configuration.

84. xsstrike -u https://target.com --crawl

    Description: Crawls a website for XSS vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To find and exploit potential XSS vulnerabilities.

85. curl -I https://target.com

    Description: Retrieves HTTP headers from a web server.
    Uses: To gather information about the server’s response headers.

86. recon-ng -w workspace -m recon/hosts/domains -o domains=target.com

    Description: Collects domain-related information in a Recon-ng workspace.
    Uses: To gather and manage reconnaissance data.

87. nmap --script http-enum -p 80,443 target.com

    Description: Uses Nmap's http-enum script to enumerate directories and files.
    Uses: To find hidden directories and files on web servers.

88. sqlmap -u "https://target.com/page?id=1" --tables

    Description: Lists tables in a database if SQL injection is present.
    Uses: To discover database tables for potential exploitation.

89. whatweb -i https://target.com

    Description: Identifies web technologies and services.
    Uses: To detect technologies used by a web application.

90. findsubdomains -d target.com -o subdomains.txt

    Description: Finds subdomains of a given domain.
    Uses: To discover additional subdomains.

91. nmap -p 22,80,443 --open target.com

    Description: Scans for open ports 22 (SSH), 80 (HTTP), and 443 (HTTPS).
    Uses: To quickly check for common open ports.

92. sublister -d target.com

    Description: Enumerates subdomains of a domain.
    Uses: To find additional subdomains.

93. fuzzer -u https://target.com/FUZZ -w wordlist.txt

    Description: Fuzzes URLs for potential vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To identify hidden or sensitive resources.

94. sslscan target.com

    Description: Scans a server for SSL/TLS vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To assess the security of SSL/TLS configurations.

95. urlscan.io -u https://target.com

    Description: Analyzes a URL for security and content.
    Uses: To get a detailed analysis of a web page’s security posture.

96. censys search "target.com"

    Description: Searches Censys for information about the target domain.
    Uses: To find exposed services and security issues.

97. waybackurls target.com | grep -i login

    Description: Searches Wayback Machine URLs for login pages.
    Uses: To find potential login or admin pages from historical data.

98. recon-ng -w workspace -m recon/hosts/hostnames -o hostnames=target.com

    Description: Collects hostname-related information in a Recon-ng workspace.
    Uses: To gather and manage hostname data.

99. vulners -u https://target.com

    Description: Scans a web application for known vulnerabilities.
    Uses: To identify vulnerabilities based on the Vulners database.

100. sublist3r -d target.com -o subdomains.txt

    Description: Enumerates subdomains of a domain using various sources.
    Uses: To gather a list of subdomains for further testing.
